- [Instructor] Let's check out why using
Reactive Spring Boot is a great fit
for a full stack Reactive application.
Spring 5 is the newest version of Spring.
Spring helps you implement best practice design patterns
such as dependency injection.
It leverages an industry standard
Reactive Streams implementation called Project Reactor.
Spring WebFlux allows you to expose fully non blocking
reactive endpoints in your rest API.
By default, Spring 5 uses Netty as its web server.
Netty is a async high performance event-driven
network application framework.
It uses an event loop architecture
to handle incoming requests in a non blocking manner.
This event loops hands off an incoming request
to the Spring Web API.
Each component in the chain
uses a Spring reactive publisher such as a mono
to pass messages.
Next the response is sent to the Spring reactive stack
web framework called WebFlux.
Last in the chain,
the controller handles the request in a non blocking manner.
During this time,
the event loop is free to pick up new requests,
since this process is non blocking.
When a request is complete,
the response is sent back up the chain.
Then when it gets back to the event loop,
the response is returned to the client.
Spring 5 is a really great framework
for reactive applications.
It supports very high-throughput rates.
You also get flexible flow control in non blocking I/O.
You can check out projectreactor.io
for supporting documentation
on the high-throughput rates of Project Reactor.
Finally, you get to leverage
the Spring MVC controller annotations
that you may already be familiar with.
Alternatively, you could also use the new Java
lambda-based functional endpoints if you prefer,